Here, at the edge of the world, a writer finds her other half dying.
The great dragon Viridian, who scales once held the light of deep forests,
now lies fevered and fading.
His breath is smoke and ruin.
Kalen sees not just a sickness in his body, but a fading in his soul,
a color leaching from their shared sky.
This is an ancient melody, one that whispers of an ending.
But she is a writer. They do not accept endings.
In the archives of Forgotten Lore, she finds a whisper, not of a cure but of a source.
The shrine of Ethelgard, they called it, a place where the mountains own heart beats,
where the ancient power that gave dragons their fire can mend what is broken.
It is a legend, a myth told to hatchlings, but legends are built on the bones of truth,
and Karen has nothing left to believe in, but truth and a dying dragon.
The path to the shrine does not begin with a climb, but a descent into blight.
The whisper would stand before them, a forest sick with its own ancient fever.
The trees twist not in growth, but in pain.
Here, the air itself is a poison, and every shadow seems to reach.
For a healthy dragon, this wood is a challenge.
For Veridian, each step is a battle against the very land that seeks to claim his fading light.
The wood keeps its own secrets, and not all of them are trees.
The dragon hunters move through the gloom like race, their armor scuffed, their weapons stained.
They smell sickness, they smell opportunity.
Kalen's heart hammers against her ribs. Viridian cannot but he can barely stand.
She becomes a shadow guiding him from bolder to hollow,
praying the corrupted forest that seeks to drain him will also hide him,
from those who wish to spill his last drop of life.
The bond between writer and dragon is more than a saddle and a shared sky.
It is a thread of the soul.
And now, Kaelin pulls upon that thread, not for flight, but for life.
She pours her own warmth, her own energy into her dying friend.
It is agony, a hollowing sensation.
But for a moment, a single scale remembers its green, a flicker.
Enough, it is always enough to take one more step toward hope.
They leave the sickness of the forest below, only to meet the fury of the mountain.
The storm-crust does not welcome pilgrims.
It guards its secrets with claws of stone and breath of hurricane.
The wind screams a physical wall of force that seeks to tear them from the cliff and cast them into oblivion.
This is not a path. It is a test, a trial of will against the raw,
unfeeling power of the world.
The mountains will is clear.
Turn back.
A blast of wind, cold and malicious, strikes like a battering ram.
Kalen is gone.
Her world a dizzying spin toward the abyss.
Then a shadow falls over her.
Viridian, her dying friend, extends a wing not for flight, but for sacrifice.
He becomes her shield, his body screaming in protest as he absorbs the theory meant for them both.
He does not fly.
He endures for her.
They are broken things upon the doorstep of salvation.
Viridian's breath is a shallow rasp, each one a small victory.
But there, etched into the living rock, is the gateway, the shrine of Ethelgard.
Its light is not of the sun or moon, but something older, something gentle.
It spills out like liquid hope, offering warmth after the wind's cruel bite.
They have crossed the threshold of the world.
Now, they must cross the last few feet.
The air hums with a power that has slept for ages. The water is not merely water. It is the mountains pulse,
the raw healing essence of the earth. Viridian lowers his weary head, and the moment his snout touches
the surface, the mountain awakens for him. Light surges, not as an attack, but as a homecoming.
The grey, the sickness, the fever, it is scoured away by a tide of pure, verdant life.
The scales drink in the light, remembering their true name, Emerald.
And then they fly, not a labored, desperate flap,
but a powerful joyous stroke of wings that shatters the last of the storm's gloom.
Viridian is himself again, a creature of emerald and sky, his roar, a peel of thunder that echoes
not with sickness, but with life. Kalen, his rider, his partner, leans into the wind,
her heart soaring as high as the mountain they conquered.
Behind them lies a shrine to forgotten power, before them lies the whole world reclaimed.
They are dragon and rider, they are healed, they are home.